---
layout: post
title: I’d Rather Be a Gardner
description:
subtitle:
image:
date: 2021-11-29 12:00:00 -0700
category: note
tags: 
---

Example of my first travel blog…

Today, the state of blogging is…that it’s no longer blogging. It’s content marketing with A/B testing, search engine optimization, and a perpetual search for what can be viral.

Monetization - substack, ghost, ConvertKit
All these services pushing

Some sites scream why you shouldn’t blog
[https://makealivingwriting.com/stop-writing-blog-posts-do-this-instead/][1]

I admire all those teams (and would even love to work for them!) but those models don’t align with what I want to accomplish here.

None of those things are necessarily wrong or bad. I do all of them whenever I’m wearing the hat of content marketer for a company. But they also feel constricting.

Not about the past necessarily

Now our voices are passed through the values of content marketing and growth-hacking, rather than focusing on originality.

Packaging makes everything the same. You probably instinctively know this. It seems like every recipe “blog” begins with a long backstory, tangents about the best peanut butter (thank you to our sponsor, JIF) and is sprinkled with dozens of images all screaming to be shared to Pinterest.

[Link to internal post](/built-blog-jekyll-netlify)

Why?

Because Google has expressed a preference for longer, in-depth articles.
Because Pinterest is a popular mechanism for
Because
Because

Digital garden and small b blogging

viral means you want everyone to see something, which by definition means you are no longer targeting a specific audience.

Writing for everyone really means writing for no one.

“And this the state of content online currently: for it to matter or be valued, it has be seen by as many people as possible and creators will do almost anything to make that happen.” - Paul Jarvis

Content on the internet currently is designed for scale, for sharing, for the masses. This runs counter to blogging, which is for a specific niche, a specific group, a specific interest a few people might have.

Unique voices, sharing unique ideas
Platform incentives work against this (YouTube, TikTok, Instagram)

I’m the first to admit that I lost my way in all of this too.
Almost impossible to start writing because I was stuck on picking a niche like my professional instincts told me too—and like every content marketing post written and re-written by digital ninjas and growth marketers…

I learned how to write to get clicks and how to write to see audience growth. I was no longer blogging, I was creating content as a Content Marketer

Embarrassing example of writing about someone’s startup…realized how easy it was to gain the system?

Struggles to find writing motivation for typical content marketing

In order to start this blog, I had to make a conscious decision to stop thinking like a content marketer.

So I went back to being a blogger (lowercase - which Tom Critchlow talks about here). I went back to focusing entirely on what is best for my small audience. I went back to sharing my personal and unique take on ideas, instead of what would get the most clicks from Twitter.

Keep a swipe file of ideas I want to expand
I avoid writing anything that falls too directly into a how-to



[1]:	https://makealivingwriting.com/stop-writing-blog-posts-do-this-instead/
